everyone does not have to believe what I
believe but I want everyone to feel like
they matter
they have purpose if someone who loves
them will listen to them care for them
and I actually think we can do that on a
grand scale and I imagine the
communities that can also do that before
you know it you know we could have a lot
less lonely people in the world and that
would be pretty awesome because you
believe that human potential is nearly
limitless but you know that having
potential is not the same as actually
doing something with it so our goal with
this show and company is to introduce
you to the people and ideas that will
help you actually execute on your dreams
all right today's guest is the chaplain
for the Seattle Seahawks and leads a
megachurch attended by over 10,000
people he is one of the most phenomenal
public speakers I have ever seen and
he's making so many waves that he's been
interviewed by everyone from Maria
Shriver to the Today Show known as the
Millennial preacher to the Stars he
counts Justin Bieber Russell Wilson
Kevin Durant Tim Tebow and top golfer
bubba watson as congregation members and
close friends and while I'm sure he
hates any title with to the stars in it
his impact on some of the biggest
athletes in the world led Fox Sports to
call him one of the most influential
people in sports today a pretty
incredible title for someone who doesn't
play or even coach but no matter what
you call him it's impossible to deny
that he's tapped into youth culture in a
powerful way and captured the
imagination of an entirely new
generation of people that have been
moving away from organized religion in
droves with over 1 million social
followers 50,000 people listening to his
sermons online and churches in Seattle
Los Angeles and Guadalajara it's easy to
see that he's touched a nerve and having
witnessed him onstage firsthand I can
tell you right now that he manages to
bring together and electrify the most
eclectic group of people I have ever
seen in one space from rabbis to diehard
hipsters celebrities and everyone in
between the young the old the
well-dressed the underdressed and a kid
with a sequined trucker hat that simply
read he welcomes everyone
regardless of faith and captivates them
with
not only who they are but who they can
become a seventh-generation pastor who
is radically inclusive and clearly one
of the greatest orders of our time
he's got insights wisdom and a deep
humility that transcends faith and
denomination and make his message truly
accessible to all so please help me in
welcoming the new york times bestselling
author who is changing the face of
religion one Instagram post at a time
Judah Smith intro I want to meet that
guy you you made that very easy very
easy because I've seen you speak and
I've seen you speak live now the great
irony of all of this is that a mutual
friend of ours who happens to be Jewish
is the guy that took me to see you speak
yeah and he was saying that you know
regardless of faith denomination he was
like every time I go see Jew to speak
I feel better I thought wow it's
actually really interesting so I wanted
to go wanted to see it for myself and I
was captivated is the right word and as
somebody who at least makes part of my
living speaking I was astounded in fact
I had a moment like you had you played
so you played basketball I did it I was
a Hooper and you played against kid
Tracy Tracy McGrady okay Tracy McGrady
and you said when you saw him play it
made you want to quit I didn't quit
that's a true story
seeing you speak made me wanna know I'm
deadly serious it was crazy
thank you so before we get into that I
know that we'll talk more about that
later but I want to start with Pete
Carroll the Seahawks and leadership so
how'd you get that gig and what is Coach
K it's the greatest job I've ever had I
have to say that and I know that's okay
to say like if church members are
watching but beam it like the chaplain
for your favorite sports team in the
world I still pinch myself I love that
it's also you've said that coach Carroll
may be the greatest leader you've ever
seen what what makes him great
there's nothing about coach Carol that
is disingenuous I don't even know if
it's in his DNA to be dissin genuine
he says what he means follows through
him what he does and cares so deeply
we'll have guys that will be in workouts
that aren't even on the team yet and
coach is there to affirm them and
encourage them and say hey man it's real
honor to have you here it's just it's
completely abnormal how much he cares
about people any room he walks into he's
making eye contact the little things
that I think are big things makes eye
contact will make connection shake your
hand hey are you doing good and when he
asks are you doing good he doesn't walk
away it's not rhetorical like he says
what you're doing good he waits for a
response and so I watch him like a hawk
to be honest the puns definitely
intended and were the Seahawks I've just
learned so much from I I really respect
him I love his wife his family his son
Nate also leads on the team and I just
hope he's watching right now so for
everybody coach for anybody that wants
to be a better leader what are some
principles that you think any great
leader does someone asked me one time
they said when when do you think you
became a good communicator first of all
I love the question I'm like you're
insinuating I'm a good communicator
thank you and I said I actually have an
answer
I know exactly when it happened which is
which is weird
I'm definitely kind of an abstract
random person so sometimes I don't have
concrete answers but I had one and it
was when I I cared more about people
than speaking or preaching and when I
when I walked through that threshold and
fell in love with people who trusted me
to lead them or add value to them I got
lost and all of a sudden the gift that I
had been working on for so long was free
to be what it truly is
and coach embodies he really kind of
lose he's not thinking I'm gonna lead
today I'm gonna be a leader today I
think he's thinking I'm gonna love these
guys I'm gonna encourage these guys I'm
gonna build them up and so I think
intentionality is so imperative but as
you develop your gift in your ability
and it grows but if you'll fall in love
with the people that give you the
privilege and honor to guide them and
lead them it never ceases to amaze me
Tom I'll be in a green room looking out
kind of the back of our one of our
buildings and I see you know single moms
in the rain in Seattle pulling trying to
find a parking spot to come to church or
come hear me speak and it's like whoa
I've really got to kind of love this
individual today to ensure that the
effort they took you know to get there
pays off so coaches he really cares
about people first that's cool and one
thing that I like about that assessment
is also in use of this that in sports is
black and white you either win or you
lose so how do you marry some of the
softer side of leadership with loving
leading with intention and the like but
we need to win and they're they're an
extraordinary team and have been in what
two Super Bowls and recent memory so how
how is a leader do you and there are in
many ways correlates between what you've
done with your church which is now
massive how do you continue to push that
forward and make the church bigger and
more successful and marry that softer
side like what where does the drive and
just like execution path come in the
word accountability comes to mind and
I'm really on this journey right now
discovering what true accountability is
and that it's first of all it's it's
steeped in in ancient Scripture and this
idea of real relationship I don't know
if there is such a thing apart from
accountability my I am prone to because
love love love is like my mantra because
of what I believe in a passion about
adding love and care and concern and
value to people that way
that sometimes I can not keep people
accountable and so like I read the
advantage by Lynn Sione and and he
talked about one of the last cowardice
act of a leader is firing someone
sometimes that you were never willing to
keep accountable and kind of in my line
of work so to speak we just kind of love
hug and hey if you don't come to work
today if you don't deliver if you don't
produce if you don't if you aren't good
at your job it's okay God loves you I
love you and that's sloppy it's not
authentic it's not genuine and so what I
have learned from Russell qb1 or coach
is that keeping each other accountable
actually breeds intimacy it breeds
camaraderie and it's a beautiful thing
so I
guess the only answer I could give right
now is I'm really leaning into what does
accountability look like I don't think
I'm good at it and I want to be good at
it I love to love people but part of
loving people is saying hey you need to
follow through and I think that's where
you know coach will love all the players
but oh my god I mean if they don't
deliver if they don't make the catch if
they don't run the route that they don't
make the block he's the first guy in
their face to say you are letting as he
says the team down in the family down
pull your weight and I think there's a
beauty to that that actually breeds
security because you're like you know
dad or the coach is gonna tell me the
truth if I need to show some things up
Wow that that is actually really amazing
in in in business I have found something
similar to be true and it it stung a
little when you said because I haven't
read the book that you mentioned okay
yeah and when you talked about that it's
actually laziness to fire somebody that
you weren't being you weren't holding
them accountable through the whole thing
and and I get that and have been guilty
of that in the past so how can if
somebody is rather than the coach
they're the player how can they embrace
accountability what are things you do
you said that you want to be more
accountable what are things you do in
your life to actually work towards that
not avoid conflict which is is part of
not only what this book speaks to but
what I've experienced avoiding conflict
minimizes the depth of relationship that
you can experience and of course the
excellence in which you can experience
progress and fulfillment and live lit
live your dreams and so we are
conditioned particularly if I could
speak to people in the faith community
work very conditioned to just like love
love love it's all good and it gets very
greasy and it's not authentic so I think
you actually address hate there needs to
be some conflict here and this is good
so we this literally happened yesterday
in one of our executive meetings is two
individuals in the meeting I was like
hey you're not saying anything you just
shut down you are clearly visibly your
body language is you are frustrated you
guys need to have conflict right now and
it's good so let's go and sure enough
this person was like well I feel like
intimidated and this person's like what
would
about well six weeks ago I'm like here
we go and I stopped him for a second I
said now this is good this is family
we're gonna keep doing this but before
the emotion begins we've got to set up
like okay
we're going to look for conflict in this
relationship in this business and this
organization because it's going to be
good for us and it's gonna keep us from
being robots and show up to work where
eventually we despise where we work
because nobody's genuine and honest and
we end up talking at the watercooler
about the person we should be talking to
face to face so I think really leaning
into conflict and now you're you're
picking up on where we are right now as
an organization where I'm at as a leader
is I've been a void in conflict and now
I'm like I'm like making guys get into
it and gals get into it in a really
healthy way in a safe environment
have you read principles by Ray Dalio no
dude I think you would love it so I will
literally what you're describing is is
what he writes in that book that need
for the saying the honest thing saying
the hard things that ultimately though
that's the only kind of culture that's
sustainable that's scalable and yeah
like really taking the time to say the
things that are obvious but something
about society tells us not to say like
when you see the person who's clearly
pissed off right and shut down but
actually saying it out loud is is pretty
incredible and I want to take that and
and talk about athletes so calling out
the obvious saying that nobody talks
about seems to be something inherent in
athletics that I love which is the the
black and white thing that you talk
about your other winner you lose
how can people bring that notion into
real life where it is so hazy how can
you get like laser clarity
I definitely think recently I was
hearing a speaker and he says what do
you want and the room gets quiet and
he's like most people don't say what
they want in life where they want to go
who they want to be they take it as it
comes which is really disturbing and sad
but it's true wait like for instance we
take friendships as they come we just
like well I guess we kind of met and you
like juice boxes and I like juice boxes
so let's just hang out and like you know
talk about Capri Sun or whatever it's
like no like I'm gonna pursue people
that I mean like you do I feel like you
you challenge me in that regard like
you're pursuing peep
that you want to mine out the gold in
them and learn from them and I think we
ought to be more intentional and and be
honest what do I want what kind of
friends do I want what kind of life do I
want and then I think speak that out
first of all like declare that be honest
recently I did an exercise again back to
our team and they said why do we exist
Judah why do you exist why do we exist
not the answer you think you're supposed
to give but the answer like the truth of
what you want and why you exist and
creating a safe space with the people
that you intentionally have have chosen
your life to go all right we're gonna
like we're gonna get bare-bones honest
here this is actually what I want in
life this is actually why I exist and
then and then we've got to like hold
each other accountable to that like bro
you can't wake up at 11 p.m. every day
if that's what you want and I think
there's a that's why I'm a big proponent
of community I don't think people can be
who they're supposed to be without
community and community doesn't have to
be 10,000 people it can be five it can
be three it can be the right people not
just a bunch of people but the right
people you know it's been said show me
your friends I'll show you your future
like it's it's real I can tell you where
you're going right now by the people
you're hanging out with on a consistent
basis so that's one of the questions
that I get asked most in the world which
is if you're the average of the five
people you spend the most time with then
how do I find those people how
aggressive do you want to be I'm married
to the woman I'm married to today
because I drove three hours from Seattle
to Portland didn't have a second thought
about it and by the way at a moment's
notice if she's like I got 10 minutes
later today I'm like I can get there in
three hours I'm gonna be there at your
doorstep and I'm gonna keep bugging you
I have friends today if I could be so
bold and I am their friends because I
they finally wore me down and it was
like you know what we're gonna hang out
because you're always around and one of
the teachings steeped in ancient
scripture is abide in me and I'll abide
in you and my pastor of my mentor his
name's Brian Houston pastors a global
church
he doesn't have to text me or call me I
text him I call him I'm always where
he's at if he's in the States he's
usually not
he's in the States guess who's gonna be
around him I'm gonna be there if he's
speaking somewhere I'm gonna do my best
to be there because I chose him
you know what eventually he's like all
right all right you know he sounds like
Brewster shark he's all right you know
and and we end up just being together
but I would say men get aggressive and I
feel like III can make an assumption and
I think you're that way too it's like no
this is I'm gonna get to know this
person I'm gonna be around this person
and you know and it you say well do do
they live across the world I can't even
meet well then download all their
material get everything they have read
it devour it study watch and grow and
learn dude so I'm not religious at all
but what I am what I love is that you
it's harder to be like you are and to
have grown like you've grown in a
religious community in some ways that's
been easier for me because I'm not
beholding to a certain set of rules and
guidelines how on earth have you built
what you've built people must be giving
you like a hard time about the size of
the church how visible you are that it
is very easy to call you famous when I
went to to see you speak and we went
backstage briefly and I won't mention
any names you haven't already talked
about publicly but dude there were so
many famous people backstage happening
like it it was it was pure insanity and
how have you been able to stay the
course to be aggressive to say what you
want to go after it to build it and only
include more and more people how he not
alienated like when I dude honestly I've
never seen a more eclectic group of
people together it's not just a bunch of
hipster kids like it was there were old
people there there was a rabbi it was so
crazy so how do you balance that you
guys want to hold me to this standard
the traditional religious narrative but
this is what I want in the world and
still go after it honestly the only true
answer I can give is relationship and
the power of relationship I'm a curious
person so I love listening to people I
love hearing your stone
I'm a quick assimilator so I love to
just like whoa I'm gonna take that I'm
gonna take that I'm not a big reader
that's my dirty little secret and
leaders or readers and readers or
leaders so I'm failing but I love to I
love to read people I love to read
people I'll read people all day long I
love reading body language
I love room dynamics how people are
feeling because of who they are how they
look or their background and culture so
I love that and I feel like that
certainly helps us tell it tell a story
that hopefully resonates with people but
but big picture you know I'm a seventh
generation speaker communicator my dad
is my hero I was given such a secure
life my dad was the most loving caring
person Tom every day of my life my dad
said people like you and they want to
hear what you have to say people like
you and they want to hear what you have
to say so I got to be really honest I
had a huge head start in life and I have
to own that it's incredible and I
definitely want to talk about your dad
in a minute but something you said in
there I want to go back to which is
you're really vulnerable and seeing you
up on stage and being so like you never
try to make yourself look cool
when when did you and I mean look and
and I think you're probably self-aware
enough to know that that's in some ways
the ultimate form of cool but you admit
things that you're struggling with and
and do it in a way that that makes that
really accessible was that a choice like
what's the power of vulnerability I
guess is my real question it's
definitely steeped in our tradition and
what's taught in Scripture that's my
ultimate inspiration I also was taught
at a very young age that people will
relate to your weaknesses far more than
your strengths and preachers if I could
be so bold are the absolute worst at
this our platforms are getting higher
and bigger I think the trend ought to be
our platforms you know it might not be
the actual stage height but it you know
what I mean metaphorically they need to
get smaller and we need to recognize
that like I told a pastor friend of mine
recently I'm like you know you you lead
a church but you're not in it like you
lead a community but you don't
participate in it you're just the pro
speaker that shows up on Sundays but you
actually don't bleed with anybody you
actually don't weep with anybody you
don't share your problems
challenges and weights and difficulties
it's like you and your wife and you just
kind of hunker down when are you gonna
be in the community I mean the real
story is I was 13 when my dad started
the church I now pastor so I it's been
my family this is my community I'm not
speaking professionally to people I'm
talking to people who have raised me my
first job at the church was cleaning
toilets I was a custodian listening to
Bishop TD jakes listening to Tony
Robbins listening to others learning and
growing and so I'm just gonna be that
guy because that's just really Who I am
talk to me about that the learning and
growing part so you and I don't want to
make you uncomfortable by continuing to
harp on this but I'll tell you a quick
story for my own background so I used to
want to be a stand-up comic when I was a
teenager that was that was my real
pursuit now it's gone I was going hard
for it and I went did an open mic and I
the way the open mic nights work is it
starts with a really crowded audience
and then established comedians come
through and they try out their stuff
it's like a random Tuesday night and so
it's not like a you know big audience or
anything there's about 300 people to
start after so many of these famous
comedians had gone is terrible material
because they're just trying it out there
was literally I don't know seven or
eight of us 15 something like that left
and me and my friend get up to leave and
this manager comes on and he goes guys
the funniest man in America is about to
walk out on stage and you're gonna want
to stay for this and so I grab my friend
I'm like wow what do we have to lose
let's sit back down we'll watch and this
guy comes out and he was like everybody
Mitch Hedberg now I'd never heard of
Mitch Hedberg ever in my life and for
those of you that don't know Mitch
Hedberg
all probably the funniest human being
ever to live and so at the end of that I
was like yeah I'm not doing stand-up
comedy
because in all seriousness to get that
good I would have had to dedicate myself
to it in a way that I wasn't prepared to
not that I couldn't get that good not my
belief system is that I could have
gotten that good if I wanted to but I
just looked at the amount of time that
it would take to become that
extraordinary and it was unbelievable
when I saw you on stage I was thinking
how much time does it take to get that
good like how do you get that good I
mean first of all I I would like to do
this interview with you every day
because I really feel like we need to do
that it's not for me man it's for you
I I just need you to encourage me like
this yes so I don't feel I can get
co-host is that something we're doing
here guys you know
well I my dad right I grew up watching
my dad and he grew up watching his dad I
started doing this at nine years old
just audiences any ranging from four
thousand to four hundred I'd get on the
stage and dad would say this is my son
Judah Elwood Smith he'd say son you know
basically take it away and I would tell
my story of how I almost died three
times before the age of one years old
and that I believe that my life had
purpose and then I'm here for a reason
it's not an accident and so I have to
own the fact that I got to start
speaking at nine years old and listen to
who I think is the most authentic man
who's ever lived speak over a hundred
times I guess to answer your question on
a SEP I have been doing this and since I
was sold for thirty years now since I
was nine Wow I mean the classic tale
right so if you know the story of
Amadeus Mozart and everybody uses him as
the example of somebody who was just
born with talent then you realize
actually his father was a piano teacher
who specialized in teaching children and
once I started playing when he was two
so by the time he's twelve thirteen he's
already been playing for ten plus years
and he practiced like a fiend because he
loved it because then you begin to
realize right that there that even
someone like you or someone like Mozart
it's like there's a lot of hours of
practice that go into that
so now talking about your dad the person
that you've watched eight hundred times
so one what are some qualities that
you've taken away from him he any room
he walked into he he never he never you
know cliche never knew a stranger but
like my dad's value was if there's
someone in this room that classically
would be ignored because they're simply
a helper or they're a worker or they're
an assistant all these horrific
categories we place on people to devalue
them you even subconsciously my dad
raged against that the first person he
wanted to talk to was the person that
maybe wasn't even acknowledged hey my
name is Linda what's your name what's
your story and so when you watch that
your whole life that becomes a massive
value so my dad taught me from a young
age hey we look for lonely people so if
you asked my thirteen eleven and
eight-year-old who are you guys they
would tell you were Smiths we're kind of
encouraging and we look for lonely
people and so I adored that about my dad
I felt like it made us different I felt
like when we walked in the room when the
Smith show up you're gonna see a
difference how did you handle this
passing um really well until three
months he was gone we did the funeral
5,000 people showed up for his funeral
which is pretty radical and I don't know
tens of thousands watched online and I I
cried I wrote letters to my dad at the
funeral that I shared and then I started
to try to lead the church that he that
he left and and doing the best I could
we had made the transition right before
he had passed and so I'm in and I'm in
and I'm in in a minute we have a board
meeting and my uncle's on the board so
is my mom and it's not all family and
then other board members and they said
how are you and I'm like I'm s I'm the
chairman of the board you know but I'm
like 30 and I'm like uh and then the
waterworks came and I'm like I'm not
okay I miss my dad this sucks I don't
care about preaching and teaching by the
way I'm out of all of my material you
know like I feel like I preached all the
sermons I can I feel trapped I feel
lonely I feel all these things and so
Chelse and I went to our happy place
which is Palm Springs and for a month
and we spent time together we cried we
laugh we told stories we prayed we read
we walked played golf and came back with
a with an appreciation for my dad that
was very healing all of a sudden I
became grateful all of a sudden instead
of you know people would say hey sorry
about your dad man it sucks about your
dad everything changed for me and I said
wait a minute no no I got the best dad
for 60 years am I not the luckiest man
who's ever lived
who how many people don't even have dads
wouldn't have a father figure don't even
have an uncle to call I got the best
most secure man in the world for 60
years to raise me oh no no no I have
nothing to complain about
I have everything to be grateful about
and that gratitude and that attitude of
gratitude which in rhymes is uh has
healed and changed me and so after that
what do you tell people now if
there in that moment they haven't had
that realization of gratitude how do you
help them through that um I definitely
don't go there straight out the gate I
think that can be come across as a
little crass and maybe a little
insensitive the first thing I say to be
I guess I'm just going to tell you the
truth I'm about to lose probably he it
could be today it could be tomorrow it's
very soon my the only real grandfather
ever had never had a grandfather but
this was this was my grandfather and I
call him grandpa so I went to see him
he's not hungry he's 85 and in so I'll
probably have to say goodbye to him in
the next couple of days there's no quick
fix and I would oppose anyone who says
there's a quick fix for the heart
there's a quick fix for a broken heart
there's not time can be a healer
relationships can be a healer and
memories can be a healer but it's real
man and I you got to know there's
somebody watching right now who's going
through something like that and you know
for me to sit here and give you cliche
little Curt answers to like nah there's
none of that
there's just brokenness and pain and
hurt and we need each other and I I
needed to feel someone to hold me and
even feel someone hugged me if that's
okay to say that's what I needed and I
cuddled with Chelsea this morning my
wife of 18 years because just just
thinking about um you know grab grandpa
so you know yeah it's easy to be strong
on a stage and tell everybody like yeah
man like everything's gonna work out but
a lot of it isn't and so we're gonna
need each other in those days to like I
don't know like I was gonna be a co-host
and now I'm never gonna get invited back
because I might be breaking down it's
like bro you can't co-host a show if
you're emotionally unstable but you know
it's a it's a it's it's it's it's a real
thing but I wouldn't have it any other
way man the pain is part of being alive
we're not living a Disney cartoon we're
live in real life and the pain we feel
it makes us more human it makes us more
alive and I held my wife tighter this
morning I just did
just did because I realized we're not
always going to be together the way we
are right now do that's incredible so
let's talk about your wife you guys seem
to have a pretty incredible marriage one
filled with honesty you guys seems like
you're honest with each other you
certainly honest with the public I've
seen you guys talk about hey every
marriage is hard and so how do you guys
deal with that I've heard you talk about
love languages yes like that what are
what are some of you guys the secrets to
a strong marriage um I have to give
Chelsea all the credit she deserves I
can already tell just by meeting your
wife then you're a great man because I
think a spouse is a dead giveaway always
a dead giveaway I truly believe that we
can make each other better and Chelsea
has made me a better human and a better
man I think developing fun things to do
together she loved to go on walks she
wants to go on hikes
I hate hikes so we compromises walks so
we we go on walks together long talks
but you know this may sound really
spiritual but one of the most intimate
things we do is we we pray together we
pray together and whatever you believe
about prayer we pray together and to
hear her express to God what's going on
in her heart is so intimate and by the
way side note sexy mini prayer times
lead to other times which is my favorite
oh you want to pray together
sure like weird things pastors admit you
know that's so gross but it's so true
you're like what pastors like yeah our
prayer times lead to sex pretty awesome
I'm like that guy but uh yeah we do we
do we do that and you know what we've
set rules of engagement not allowed to
use the word divorce you can't use it to
cheap shot you can't do it you can't say
you always you never can't use the word
hate you can't cuss of each other we
broke that rule few times
but rules of engagement things you can't
do I can't take shots at her for things
she can't change and can't control
and that has helped us fight good you
gotta fight good you got to fight good
and make it up awesome but you got to
learn how to fight right because I think
you actually need a good fight now and
again and you need to argue and you need
that conflict to bring intimacy so I
don't move so far from like perfect and
awesome we're gonna keep growing but
Chelsea's really good at making sure we
fight right and so our fights actually
seem productive
we definitely got into it going through
TSA yesterday on our way to LA because
she's talking about hoodies we made for
this event for young people we made 12
we wanted to be exclusive and she's like
that is weird
why did we do that I'm like babe just
stop let other people say what do you
say told me to stop I'm like stay in
your lane I said stay in your lane who
says that like she's like you just tell
me stay in night lane and then my son's
like roast and I'm like bro you are not
in this conversation go through the
metal detector right now keep him in
there
search him you know so but you know
what's crazy is by the time and I know
this this sounds so like we really
mastered this but by the time we got to
the end of the TSA line and we're
picking up our bags and putting our
shoes back on she's like I'm so sorry we
forgive me I'm I can't I'm so sorry I'm
just tired I don't know why I said that
I love you let's not do it she's like
yeah totally ten years ago we would have
been an all-day thing probably you know
like I'm so annoyed at you but then like
like the older you get you're also like
I have so much energy so I'm not gonna
you like I want to use this energy not
to fight all day I want to use it to do
other really fun and potentially sexy
things it's incredible what do you teach
your kids about communication you can't
say bored in our family if you say
you're bored it only means you're boring
there's no such that we don't believe in
it so boring is against our belief
system if you're if you're tired get
rest don't walk around and say you're
tired
I think tired becomes a something we
talk ourselves into a lot I'm tired I'm
so tired I'm so tired you keep saying
that you're gonna live a tired life you
don't wanna be married to that person
you don't want to be a friends with that
person you don't wanna be led by that
person who's constantly tired so
actually the people we really admire are
not tired people they're actually
energized people who love and have
energy to give and value to give so I'm
trying to teach our kids hey we don't I
think words are very formative I think
they're very powerful
and they create the culture in which you
live in we don't say hate we are very
open and honest with each other so at
the dinner table two nights ago we're
very honest highs and lows we talk about
highs and lows we say what one needs to
be said not what we think we should be
it should be said so those are some kind
of the the the the the driving values
that we have we we we diabolically
oppose cutting people off in sentences
so that is a very big thing if someone
is talking at the dinner table
grace interrupts is ayan we stop and go
you just interrupted your brother that D
values him that's not okay Zion you
speak you grace you wait your turn
grace now is being a little cheeky she's
eight and she's the cutest little thing
in a whole wide world eyed door so now
she's raising her hand to make a point
and I'm like okay you don't raising your
hand while he's still talking is still
interrupting and it's a distraction so
those are up the top of my head those
are some of the guiding values we have
in terms of communication in words and
and how we engage I actually heard you
say a quote I'll at least paraphrase it
but I think I'm gonna get pretty close
where you said I don't want to live what
I preach I want to preach what I live
yeah what do you mean by that
that's my dad quote from my dad if
you're not living it don't shout it from
the rooftop because here's a pic on
preachers preachers are classic for this
there is a discrepancy that begins to
form and it happens very subtly and then
it happens surely and then ultimately
publicly and clearly you start to say
stuff you don't do you start to tell
people to do stuff you don't do and
subtly you use you slip into
self-deception and now what preachers
tell themselves if I preach it it's as
good as doing it because if I'm helping
somebody else do it I don't need to do
it because I help them do it and who's
losing you the preacher and I don't want
to become that guy I also think it
ripped what resonates with people is
when they can tell there's what I like
to call win behind your words and the
only thing that gives you wind is the
life you live so if you're living this
thing and you get up and go hey let's
actually learn about each other care
about one another listen to one another
if I don't care if I'm not a learner if
I'm not listening its rhetoric it's
cliche it's elevator music it's white
noise we've heard that it's it's a it's
it's pretense but but just yeah just
share with people what's really changed
your life and what you're really living
out and your words will have a lot more
power and so I believe that the things
that people move towards are gonna be
their biggest goals what are some goals
you're trying to move towards I just
can't imagine that your church has
gotten as big and thriving as it is
without it having something really big
driving that yeah I love I do love
targets I've had I've had a weird
relationship with goals so I've just
changed the word so now mine is my word
is target and it's somehow I've got
fresh passion to set more targets I
think the world is changing very very
fast
I think globalization is real it's upon
us I'm no longer from here I'm from the
world I'm a part of the world I see the
world I represent the world I am the
world globalization is very fascinating
in relationship to faith community and
movements and I truly believe that
globalization has set us up for global
communities and my passion right now is
I can I can see in the future that
churches and communities will have
millions of people engaging all over the
world in different languages maybe even
utilizing technology so I'm really
passionate obviously social media has
proven that people want to engage I
think social media and Technology has to
lead to tactile it has to get to tactile
and I think some of the innovators are
even speaking to that right now we need
this we need each other I need to like
hug you and feel that embrace so I'm
passionate because that really aligns
with my passion in life which is to help
people who feel loved everyone does not
have to believe what I believe but I
want everyone to feel like they matter
they have purpose they have someone who
loves them will listen to them care for
them and I actually think we can do that
on a grand scale and I imagine
communities that can also do that before
you know it you know we could have a lot
less lonely people in the world and that
would be pretty awesome it's pretty
incredible now how'd you get to know
Bieber I would say he was 8 9 years old
and I spoke at a convention in Toronto
where he lived and Patty his mom brought
him wasn't supposed to as for young
people and they heard me speak there
patty goes out to the tape desk the tape
table and buys tapes that's how old I am
and would play the tapes every night to
put Justin to bed so he first time he
met he goes do you remember when we
first met and I go no I don't I want to
but it was like you know just a bunch of
young people and he's like well guess
what you put me to sleep every night and
I'm like dude that's not really what a
preacher wants to hear like for real
it's not but I just I just want to say
Justin has changed my life I have
learned more from that young man than he
will ever learn from me in ten lifetimes
his exposure to the world his
experiences his spiritual journey has I
mean this dramatically changed me I do
not believe I would see the world or
even talk the way I talk without it he
is my brother I honor him I respect him
I look up to him I love him and he is a
genius and not just musically so I'm
honored to be his brother that's really
interesting and seeing how many people
in that sphere of celebrity have been
drawn to you it's really really
interesting what is it that you think
because they're obviously there are
different slings and arrows coming their
way what is it that draws them to you
and your message specifically I think
everybody deserves a fair shake to grow
at life and to be loved and I think and
a lot of people will disagree this I
actually think people in the limelight
don't get a fair shake most the time
they are not treated in a way that would
give them a fair shake I'll give you an
example people will complain sometimes
like wow all the celebs get to sit on
the front row while all the slabs get
aside VIP entrance absolutely and do you
know why because they deserve a fair
shake to be in a room to feel safe and
to feel like actually oh that's right
everybody else in the room already feels
no one walked into the theater last
night going oh man I hope hope no one
wants a photo hope no one wants to
picture hope no one's a right most
people got to walk in just like like a
human so my passion is to provide
environments
where my brothers my friends my sisters
and brothers that I love a lot get a
fair shake to actually experience that
and get to be one of the guys you know
one of the guys and so maybe that's a
reason I don't know but it's a I we get
blasted for it but I will not I will not
stop doing that because we're doing it
for a purpose that people don't
initially see it's to actually ensure
that everyone in the room no matter who
you are
gets a fair shake if you need signing
because you're hard of hearing and
that's a challenge we're gonna get a
signer to help you if you if you're if
you're in a wheelchair we're gonna get
you get if you if you speak a different
language we're gonna try to find a
translator we want everyone in the room
to get a fair shake and hearing about
the fact that they're loved and they
belong here that's cool I love that
answer
so before I asked my last question where
can these guys find you online well a
church home 1/h that's kind of our new
name we want to be a home for Humanity
where there's a family where there's a
home is a family is kind of our things
so church home 1 H org anything you can
kind of find information there and my
email is Judah at church home dot org
it's my real email so you can email me
well if like if it's a nice thing Judah
church home dot org and and that's
that's us awesome and my last question
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world I want I actually think
we're suffering from a lack of love on a
grand scale on an epic scale it might be
the greatest epidemic in the world maybe
it always has been
I think things horrific things like
racism are symptomatic of the fact we
don't fill up we don't feel like we
matter we don't feel like we're valued
and so we devalue each other and we
fight and we war my passion is to love
people and to express that love that I
believe ultimately comes from God so
that's my passion in life
guys you know me I'm not a religious
dude I did not bring him on here with
agenda I brought him on because my
Jewish friend took me out to see a
Christian pastor and said you've got to
see this guy I don't know what it is
about him but every time I see him I
just feel better I went and saw it for
myself and the the eclectic people that
he puts together is breathtaking in its
simplicity and its beauty and the way
that he makes everybody feel included
the insights the deep wisdom the ability
to read people and the fact that he has
practiced an art so much that he can
become a true Orchestrator of emotions
to create such an unbelievable
experience to feel more human to feel
more alive it was absolutely
breathtaking it it really was one of the
most incredible live events I've ever
witnessed in my life it was really
really special and that's why I wanted
to bring him on here so that you guys
could get a taste of it I'm telling you
does not matter what you believe
somebody that wants to make your life
better that wants to make you feel loved
like that is all good in my book and
that is something that he does in spades
so I hope that you guys will dive into
his world regardless of what you believe
take what makes sense discard the rest
and I think you're gonna find that you
take a whole hell of a lot alright if
you guys haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care everybody thank you so much
for watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're gonna get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential